well it is now 11 GMT that's 1: p.m. in
the afternoon in Gaza where conditions
for 2.3 million Palestinians trapped in
the territory are rapidly deteriorating
for the 23rd day now Israel has
continued its Relentless bombardment
more than 8,000 Palestinians have now
been confirmed dead since this war broke
out the UN Chief says that number is
totally unacceptable on the ground the
UN says civil order is collapsing and
some of its warehouses have been looted
of food and IAL supplies Stephanie deer
rounds up the
latest A desperate Scramble for
supplies this is survival mode people
broke through the doors of this un
Warehouse in southern Gaza it's
chaos we need fresh water we need food
we're starving this is totally unfair
our children can't sleep from hunger and
thirst we need need to provide food and
water for
them we have no flour no Aid no water
not even toilets our houses were
destroyed no one cares about us we
appeal to the people of the world all
International powers are against us we
needed Aid and we wouldn't have done
this if we weren't in
need Israel has cut off all food and
water Imports to the strip there is a
trickle that occasionally enters through
Egypt's rougher Crossing but it's not
enough the UN has warned of a
humanitarian disaster but it's been
warning that for years and somehow every
year things get
worse it's the early hours of Sunday
morning but time means nothing here
anymore Naser Hospital in hunas is at
breaking
Point may God please protect and
preserve our people this old man
cries there is nowhere to run nowhere to
hide penned in this a war like Gaza has
never
seen people use their bare hands to
desperately search for
survivors but even the smallest of lives
stand little chance against Israel's
Firepower and the daylight brings no
relief death comes suddenly death comes
consistently and it comes from the air
here time in Gaza is now measured
between explosions and between life and
death Stephanie deer Al
jazer well since this War Began on
October the 7th Israel's bombing
campaign across the territory has killed
8,5 Palestinians that's according to the
Palestinian Health Ministry it says2
have also been killed in the occupied
West Bank in nearly 3 weeks and two
Palestinian prisoners have died in
Israeli custody Israel says that was due
to natural causes the Israeli government
says more than 1,400 Israelis were
killed in hamas's Attack 3 weeks ago
well let's speak to our correspondent on
the ground Al jazer hanim mwood he joins
me now from Khan yunes inside the Gaza
Strip honey it must be a great relief
for so many that Communications are
finally back up after what was it two
days do we know how they were restored
and how long this might
[Music]
last well yes it's a great relief for so
many people who waited eagerly uh for uh
for news about the connectivity uh
turned on uh again uh we know that
cables and cell towers and and
infrastructure in the central part of
Gaza where completely damaged as due to
due to air heavy air strikes in the area
and another installation in the Gaz
strip was completely destroyed leaving
an entire uh Gaza Strip in Total
Blackout that what happened sent uh
speculations and and fear among people
that this is the beginning of something
atrocious as Gaza was put off of the
gret now uh we we we heard from a a
source at the at palel it's the official
Palestinian telecommunication company
who Express uh their frustration at what
happened because it was since the
beginning of the war the air strikes the
Israeli bombardment and air strikes just
destroyed most of of the companies in
installations leaving it with one
installation covering uh the entire Gaza
stb and just to you know just for the
past two weeks communication was
difficult it would take uh many times
many tries just to uh make a phone call
or send a text message let alone being
online using the internet but uh one
installation that was left was
completely destroyed and then the
company uh re resorted to uh a a basic
Alternatives uh just to connect people
uh back again and and and just to uh
help organizations such as the the Ona
and the Red Cross managing its
operations on the ground we we heard uh
some of the uh really uh horrible
stories of lack of uh uh Communications
between the organization and and and
their teams on the ground and and and
people who were trying to uh reach them
uh to report about a a a lacking of
basic needs and supplies caused huge
problem and we've seen in the past uh uh
few uh the the past 24 hours thousand of
Palestinians just breaking into a a
warehouse of the of the United Nations
and and lots of looting was going on and
when people were asked about what was
going on they were were just uh taking
what they need needed what they needed
to sustain them throughout the day the
situations are very very Dreadful and
escapable for many Palestinians a lot of
people are afraid they're going to
starve if Food Supplies continue to be
blocked h m there with that report for
us from the ground from kanun inside the
Gaza Strip thank you so much hany well
we can now speak to Juliet Tuma she is
the communications director for unra the
UN Agency for Palestinian refugees she
joins us now from Aman and Jordan Juliet
just talking a little more about the
Looting of these warehouses your
warehouses what sort of scale are we
talking about here and what's the
situation now with with some of the
other distribution
sites I don't have that level of
information and uh what is really
important about what happened yesterday
is the level of Despair and frustration
that people feel that led them to break
into the Andra warehouses it is a
worrying sign of a begin of a fall of
civil order in Gaza but it's equally the
highest levels of Despair among the
people after three weeks of very tight
Siege and a very very vicious War Juliet
we've just been hearing there from our
correspondent hany about how anxious
people have been especially during the
communications blackout over the last
couple of days not knowing how or where
to access supplies or or when they would
receive them how much did that
contribute to this and and as you say
this disintegration of civil
order I think the the cuts that we've
seen in Gaza of communications including
internet and other types of of cuts have
isolated the people of Gaza uh from
their families within the Gaza Strip but
also from the rest of the world it also
isolated us as Andra because we could
not have a stable line of contact and
also interrupted our humanitarian
operations well speaking of
interruptions to to your operation I I
know only a tiny tiny proportion of
what's needed in terms of Aid has
actually made it into the strip how
quickly is it being distributed I I know
you've also lost many of your staff
there I'm so sorry I I know that must be
very difficult on multiple levels but it
also has consequences on what you can
do absolutely absolutely we have uh as
of this morning the total number of
colleagues who have been killed in the
war in Gaza since the 7th of October
only since the 7th of October only in
this war is 59 and that is believed to
be the highest number of um un people
killed in such a short span of time in
any conflict around the world uh these
were teachers school principls um
Engineers one doctor very uh many
support staff who are the backbone of
our operation
in in Gaza so many challenges yes also
because our staff themselves have been
impacted and have been displaced when we
get those very very little supplies that
are coming on these trucks uh we do
everything possible to pick them up from
the borders even if it's uh nighttime
even if if air strikes are ongoing and
we put them in the warehouse and then
start the distribution as soon as we can
but I really want to say that these
trucks are not enough I I mean we had
just over 80 trucks in in in in more
than a week I mean it's nothing so so
Gaza before the war used to get every
single day 500 tracks now we had 84 in
one week it's nothing uh well Juliet I
know one of the strictest conditions
that the Israelis put on Aid in order to
even allow it to enter Gaza was that it
would not be given to Hamas that Hamas
would have no access is there a concern
that the Looting of warehouses now might
give Israel any kind reason to restrict
Aid citing security
reasons I don't know I don't know what I
do know is that we need more supplies
that people in Gaza uh civilians in Gaza
need more supplies that Andra needs more
supplies it needs fuel as well um for us
to be able to continue our humanitarian
operation supplies are running out and
uh we need more supplies and we need
those convoys to have more trucks on
them and to have fuel on them and to be
more frequent yesterday because of the
communications breakdown we could not
coordinate for the Convoy so there was
no Convoy yesterday uh into the Gaza
Strip Juliet you mentioned their fuel
your agency was warning earlier this
week that if you received no fuel you
would have had to halt your operations
in Gaza I believe that was on Wednesday
night so what's the situation
now we have uh rationed the use of fuel
we continue to call for fuel and we
continue to call for fuel to be included
as part of the humanitarian convoys that
are being sent into
Gaza Julia tum they're the
communications director for unra the UN
Refugee the UN Agency for Palestinian
refugees thank you so much for joining
us on aler Juliet thank you for your
time and we wish you all the best with
your
work